Amora: A mobile Remote Assistant
Adenilson Cavalcanti (savagobr@yahoo.com)


= Abstract =

You got a cellphone with bluetooth and still need to manually control
slides when making a presentation?

Don't worry anymore, **Amora** implements control of mouse
and most of keyboard shortcuts (ESC, ENTER, SPACE, arrow keys, etc)
making easy this task.

Currently, the client is implemented in Python for S60 (Nokia cellphones)
and the server is written in C programming language using Xlib and XTest to
send events for X session and POSIX socket API for I/O.

For bluetooth SDP I used BlueZ (so for while, this part of server is
Linux only), there are plans to port the server to run in other
*nix architectures (FreeBSD, Solaris, Mac OSX).


= Rationale =

Most of notebooks are bluetooth ready, and case negative, a bluetooth dongle
is really cheap, as also cellphones with bluetooth are common place for
geek users.

Even if there are already MS-Windows only applications with similar
purpose, *nix users are forgotten. And strangely, the opensource projects
are cryptic to use (or not strangely after all...) or plain and simple
don't work.

I decided to write this code to answer my own need of an application that has:
 - Nice GUI on cellphone
 - Server side doesn't require any configuration


Also, expanding the idea of a simple remote control, I will add some features
that can be potentially useful for slide presentations:
 - a stopwatch
 - window preview in cellphone (to be implemented)


== Hardware required ==

A Nokia cellphone S60 (3rd and 2rd editions are tested), Linux
(tested on Ubuntu 6.06 and 6.10) and a bluetooth dongle.



== Software dependencies ==

To run the application, you need to install Python for S60, available in
[PyS60 http://pys60.sourceforge.net]. There are 2 files required, the python
interpreter and the python shell, you need to download them and install
to be able to execute python programs in your cellphone.

To install the cellphone client application, just copy the files in a folder
named 'Python' in cellphone memory card.

For server side, to compile the source code, you will need:
 - gcc compiler
 - Xlibs
 - XTest libs
 - BlueZ libs


And also XTest extension enabled in you X server (default on Ubuntu). So,
in Ubuntu simply run in your terminal:
$sudo apt-get install  gcc libxext-dev libbluetooth2-dev

After installing the dependencies, change to directory 'pc_server'
and execute the following command:
$make

It will generate an executable file named 'test_presenter', you must
start the application (and make sure that the bluetooth dongle is
connected to the computer):
$./test_presenter



= Project status =


What works: mouse moving, left button clicking, mouse scroll wheel,
keyboard shortcuts (ENTER, ESC, SPACE, Arrow keys).

Cellphone client can be started independently of server side application.
You can close the connection from cellphone and later reconnect without
restarting the server.

Its stable and I already use it to control my slides and movie watching (i.e.:
I can start a slide presentation, stop it, move the mouse cursor to a
directory, double click in a video file and control most of actions in
MPlayer).


== What is next ==

 - Icon animation to display event type in cellphone: easy, but takes
a while to figure out rescale parameters for icon images.

 - Integrate stopwatch: easy, already got some code for it.

 - Mouse drag: boring, but easy.

 - Create a SIS file with python + app bundled.

 - Create a deb file with server app (checkinstall make it easy if the app
has an autotools-based buildsystem).

 - Current display thumbnail: this is going to be hard, will require at least
one more dependency to convert a screenshot to an image compressed format (like
JPEG) to save bluetooth use. It is not going to be usable for cellphone with
resolution lower than 176x208 (i.e. Nokia N70).

 - Integration of bluetooth preview with cellphone client GUI: user must
have alternatives like enable/disable window preview, swap view mode
(fullscreen X widescreen), set quality/compression parameters.

 - Heart beat between the server and cellphone client: not easy, I think it
will need a thread in cellphone.

 - Forking the server process when receiving a new connection: easy, can be
not really necessary with heart beat.

 - cellphone client mouse acceleration: currently I use a fixed amount of
pixels to move the mouse around (let's call it **delta**). A dynamic delta
can improve mouse moving, based on last time the user pressed/moved the mouse.

 - A logging feature: can help to track bugs, but up until now just nice to
have.

 - FreeBSD server port: no idea of difficulty (it depends **if** bluetooth
SDP API is documented in BSD) and **if** there are source code examples
available.

 - Solaris port: no idea too, same case as FreeBSD.

 - Mac OSX: well, it has 1 more factor of difficulty since Mac doesn't use
X server to control most of its apps.

 - Write a J2ME client for other cellphone models (Nokia S40, e.g. 6111).


== Related Projects ==


 - [controlblue http://code.google.com/p/controlblue/]

 - [pys60rc http://pys60rc.sourceforge.net/]

 - [GNOME Bluetooth Control Remoto (GBTcr) http://gbtcr.chileforge.cl/]

 - [pys60miniapps xmms http://sourceforge.net/projects/pys60miniapps/]