#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Deploy
'''Amora: a mobile remote assistant'''

''Adenilson Cavalcanti (savagobr@yahoo.com)''

= Rationale =
Most of notebooks are bluetooth ready, and case negative, a bluetooth dongle
is really cheap, as also cellphones with bluetooth are common place for
geek users.

Even if there are already MS-Windows only applications with similar
purpose, Unix users are forgotten. And strangely, the opensource projects
are cryptic to use (or not strangely after all...) or plain and simple
don't work.

I decided to write this code to answer my own need of an application that has:

  * Nice GUI on cellphone
  * Server side doesn't require any configuration

Also, expanding the idea of a simple remote control, I will add some features
that can be potentially useful for slide presentations:

  * a stopwatch
  * window preview in cellphone (to be implemented)

== Hardware required ==
A Nokia cellphone S60 (3rd and 2rd editions are tested), Linux
(tested on Ubuntu 6.06, 6.10, 7.02 i386 and x86-64, Debian) and a bluetooth dongle.

== Software dependencies ==
To run the application, you need to install Python for S60, available in
[http://pys60.sourceforge.net PyS60]. There are 2 files required, the python
interpreter and the python shell, you need to download them and install
to be able to execute python programs in your cellphone.

To install the cellphone client application, just copy the files in a folder
named 'Python' in cellphone memory card.

For server side, to compile the source code, you will need:

  * gcc compiler
  * Xlibs
  * XTest libs
  * BlueZ libs
  * Imlib2 libs

And also XTest extension enabled in you X server (default on Ubuntu). So,
in Ubuntu simply run in your terminal:

$sudo apt-get install  gcc libxext-dev libbluetooth2-dev libimlib2-dev

After installing the dependencies, change to directory 'pc_server'
and execute the following commands:

$mkdir build

$cd build

$../configure

$make

It will generate an executable file named 'amora', you must
start the application (and make sure that the bluetooth dongle is
connected to the computer):

$./amora

= Project status =
What works: mouse moving, clicking, mouse drag, mouse scroll wheel,
keyboard shortcuts (ENTER, ESC, SPACE, F5, 'F', left and right arrow keys).

You can ask for screenshots of active window as also use a mode where for each mouse click the screenshot of active window is taken (very handy when driving slides).

Cellphone client can be started independently of server side application.
You can close the connection from cellphone and later reconnect without
restarting the server.

The server can detect when the client just died (e.g. cellphone turned off) as also the client can detect when the server is down.

Its stable and I already use it to control my slides and movie watching (i.e.:
I can start a slide presentation, stop it, move the mouse cursor to a
directory, double click in a video file and control most of actions in
MPlayer).

== What is next ==

Development is on going, for new planned features check project tickets page ('Issues') and project description (in repository trunk).

== Related Projects ==
  * [http://code.google.com/p/controlblue/ controlblue]

  * [http://pys60rc.sourceforge.net/ pys60rc]

  * [http://gbtcr.chileforge.cl/ GNOME Bluetooth Control Remoto (GBTcr)]

  * [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pys60miniapps/ pys60miniapps xmms]

  * [http://nacaolivre.org/2007/06/30/python-bluetooth-pys60-e-imaginacao/ bluetricks]

## moin code generated by txt2tags 2.4 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
## cmdline: txt2tags -t moin p4x_descr.t2t


