#summary How to check amora isn't broken after changes
#labels Phase-QA,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This is thought as testing procedure to make sure that amora is working
correctly after changes to the code have been made.

See also [http://code.google.com/p/amora/issues/detail?id=53 issue 53]

= Basic usage =
== Bluetooth not found ==
  * Make sure the Bluetooth dongle is not plugged in. (If it's internal try to go into aircraft mode. If that's not available, go to _Starting the server_.)
  * Start amorad. It should say
{{{
No bluetooth device/dongle available. Aborting...
}}}
  and exit with return code 255. You can check that by typing
{{{
echo $?
}}}
  immediately afterwards.
== Starting the server ==
  * Plug in the Bluetooth dongle if not already plugged in. Make sure that the appropriate drivers are loaded, e.g. by calling
{{{
lsmod
}}}
  * Start amorad again. It should say
{{{
Initialization done, waiting cellphone connection...
Entering main loop...
}}}
  * Now start amora on your mobile phone.
  * It should show the sleeping penguin.
  * Press the *Options* soft-key.
  * Choose *Search devices*. (If the phone ask if it should enable bluetooth, answer _yes_.)
  * If your computer is in the list, it should have a small bluetooth icon right of the name.
  * If it's not in the list, choose "More devices" and wait until you see your computer.
  * Select you computer. A list of ports should show up, containing at least one item saying
{{{
16: Amora: assistant
}}}
  * Select it. Several things should now happen:
    * The penguin should awake. The amora logo is in full color and has a small bluetooth logo besides.
    * amorad should have given some output including the bluetooth MAC address of your mobile phone:
{{{
Accepted connection. Client is 00:11:22:33:44:55
}}}